Take notes in a plain text file and upload as an issue in github repository.

Before github: constant communication, backups, google docs, synchronize local files, dropbox

Git: Distributed Version Control

Oldr central version controls used a checkout method so that only one person can make changes to it. 
Server access was needed to see the history of file changes.

Git allows anyone to check out a file. If someone wants to work on it, they clone the repoitorty and will have the history 
of a file change.

Git bash is a shell

pwd - print working directory - where you are
ls - what's in the directory
cd - change directory
clear - removes all commands and moves cursor to the top
man - manuel - brings you to a page describing a command and examples (doesn't work on windows git bash)
../ - goes up a level
.. - goes up three levels (will go to root if there isn't enough levels)
mkdir - make a directory
rmdir - remove a directory, directory has to be empty
mv - move or renamne a file/directory
git config --global user.name " " -\
git config --global user.email " " - global command, any change made would give out a name and an email
\ - escape sequence space is used for folders and files with spaces in it
git init - initializes git in an empty repository
git status - checks untracked files
rm -rf .git - removes everything in a folder immediatley
git add * - everything in the folder
git add --all - add to the staging, ready to be commited
git commit -m -commit with a message
git rm (file name) - removes it from the repository and folder
git clone (link) - clones repository (places it right where you run the command) 

git is hidden by default

Repository - word used to descripe a project

Don't put spaces in your file names, use dashes

Staged: files that are ready to be commited

Saving doesn't affect git. It only cares about commiting the file versions to the repository. 
It will then create an object that shows the changes between the change and previous version.
Everytime you commit, you add to the repositories history. (includes removing files)

Staging and then commiting this text file. If ran successfully, nothing will show up. run git status to check
Don't manually go into a folder and delete a git folder

any action that you do in git creates an object that controls and stores the difference between versions and has the older version

github is one possible remote for a repository

github hosts open source projects, provides good structure
github is hosting for git repositories, wiki, documentation, feedback from users

can setup your own remote on a web service you own

Can clone any repoistory on github, anything ending in git can be cloned

Branching is commiting a change so that it doesn't affect the mast bracnh. 
Master branch holds first and all changes on the master branch

Working/commiting to the master branch with multiple people is dangerous because it can overwrite other changes

Post questions as issues on our github

Read the first three chapter of the git for humans book